Our previous parts have reminded us
that Jehovah’s creation
of flowers and food
and colors all demonstrate
that Jehovah wants us to be happy
—to be joyful.
Well, in this part, we’re going to see
that Jehovah designed our bodies
in a way that shows that he wants
us to be happy as well.
Now, Jehovah designed us
with the amazing capacity
for motion.
Humans can walk.
We can run.
We can swim.
We can dance.
In fact,
if you turn in your Bibles
to Acts 17:28,
you will see that this
is a God-given ability.
Acts 17:28:
“For by him
we have life
and move and exist.”
This word here “move”
refers to the ability
from Jehovah for us to be active.
But with that in mind,
we have two questions:
(1) Are there lessons
that we can learn
from how Jehovah designed us
that can help us to rejoice?
And (2) are there lessons
that we can learn that can help us
in our worship of Jehovah?
Well, let’s consider
those two points.
But first, let’s watch
the following video
that will help us appreciate
the marvelous way
in which we were designed.
Our bodies are designed to move.
The way we move can be complex
or precise.
It could require strength
or stamina.
Walking involves the coordination
of dozens of muscles.
Muscles are controlled
by our brain and nervous system.
They support and move our bones
and are powered by the food we eat
and the oxygen we breathe.
Every body part is a marvel of engineering.
The knee is designed
to withstand repeated impact.
Surrounding tissue cushions and aligns it.
Findings suggest that regular movement
helps prevent joint damage.
The body is a machine
that strengthens as we use it.
Movement helps us
to stay healthy and feel good.
The body is a credit to its Creator.
“For by him we have life
and move and exist.”
The makeup of the human body
proves that Jehovah wants us
not just to exist but to be happy.
But do you remember
our first question:
What lessons can we learn?
Well, there are two of them.
One, as the video highlighted,
Jehovah designed our bodies to move.
Did you note the comment,
“Movement helps us
stay healthy
and feel good”?
Research has established
that leading a physically active life
can help us to think clearly,
feel happier,
have more energy,
be more productive.
What an incredible gift
from Jehovah!
He created us to move.
And also he created us in a way
that the more we move
—the more we exercise,
we work, we do things for others—
the happier we are.
And the second point
is that Jehovah designed our bodies
with many different parts,
but it works as one unit.
Did you notice the coordination
needed just to walk?
That’s something
we take for granted.
And what about our knee?
Can you imagine if our knee did not work
in harmony with the rest of the body?
What if every time we stood up,
we weren’t sure which way it would bend.
How complicated
that would be!
But no, Jehovah created our bodies
to work as one complete unit.
And did you notice also
that the video stated
that our body
is like a machine
with many different moving parts
and that it all works together?
But a unique difference
between a machine and our body
is that our body
strengthens as we use it.
Now, you think about that.
If you go out and you
buy a car or you buy a bicycle,
you may think that’s a successful purchase
if it operates as intended.
But you would never expect
that car or bicycle
to improve and grow stronger
every time you use it.
But that’s what happens
to our body.
And that allows us to exercise,
walk, run, swim,
dance, even more.
And the more we move,
the happier we are.
What an incredible design!
How we appreciate our bodies
—this wonderful gift from Jehovah!
But remember
our second question:
Are there lessons
that we can learn from the body
that can help us to be happy
in our worship of Jehovah?
Let’s consider
those same two points again.
Remember, we said that Jehovah
designed our bodies to move.
So, what should we do?
Well, let’s look together
to 1 Corinthians 15:58
—1 Corinthians 15:58.
It says: “Therefore, my beloved brothers,
be steadfast, immovable,
“always having plenty to do
in the work of the Lord,
knowing that your labor is not in vain
in connection with the Lord.”
So, what do we need to do?
Move, stay busy, have “plenty
to do in the work of the Lord.”
And Jehovah gave us
further reason for rejoicing
by giving us
meaningful work to do.
Now, many of you dear brothers
and sisters have said
that you’ve never felt
busier than you do now.
Do you think
that’s a coincidence?
Do you think it’s a coincidence
that the darker
and more depressing
these last days have become
that you are busier
than ever in Jehovah’s work?
No.
See, that is one of the ways
that Jehovah uses
to help us to be happy and healthy
in these last days.
Now, we know
that our primary work
is that of preaching
the good news of the Kingdom.
And we do that
through the house-to-house preaching work.
We do that through public witnessing
and through Bible studies.
But even when this work
is restricted because of world events,
we still find ways to preach.
And when we
have “plenty to do
in the work of the Lord”
(in the preaching work),
we’re happy and we’re better able
to put our troubles into perspective.
Now, others of you support
the Kingdom work by serving at Bethel
or by constructing and renovating
theocratic facilities.
Others of you share in relief work
or whatever you do;
it brings joy,
and it brings glory to Jehovah.
So here’s a question:
Are you staying
as busy as you can
and your circumstances allow
in Jehovah’s work?
Continue to have “plenty
to do in the work of the Lord.”
You’ll be happy,
and you’ll never regret it.
But, now, our second point,
we also established
that Jehovah designed our body
with many parts
but to work as one unit.
Well, what lessons
do we learn from that?
Well, look over
to Ephesians 4:16
—Ephesians 4:16,
and it says: “From him all the body
is harmoniously joined together
“and made to cooperate through every joint
that gives what is needed.
“When each respective member
functions properly,
“this contributes
to the growth of the body
as it builds itself up in love.”
So, what do we
learn from this?
Stay united,
cooperate together,
function properly.
We learn that every part
of the human body
is necessary and that it
must work together.
Well, similarly,
the congregation
is made up
of many different members.
Each member, each of you
(whether young or old, strong or frail
—all of you) contributes to the whole
and the beauty of the congregation.
Each one of you is needed.
You are special to Jehovah
and your brothers and sisters.
And did you see
when the congregation
is “harmoniously joined together”
what happens?
The congregation
is built up.
Now, again,
many of you have said
that you’ve never felt
closer to each other
or Jehovah’s organization
than you do now.
Again, that’s no coincidence.
As the end draws near,
Jehovah is gathering us closer
and closer together in unity,
and those bonds among us
need to grow even stronger.
So, how much we appreciate
and how much we can learn
from the wonderful way
in which we are made!
May each of us
remember those two points:
(1) Be determined to be
as active as possible
—move in Jehovah’s service,
and (2) may each of us do
all that we can
to promote unity.
And if you do,
you will be happy
and not only will you
bring joy to yourself
but you’ll bring joy
to others as well.
But now Brother Gajus Glockentin,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will now present the next talk
of this symposium,
“Creation Proves That Jehovah
Wants Us to Rejoice
—Delightful Sounds.”